.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt HYPERWEAVER-AGENT 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm hyperweaver-agent
.Nd VirtualBox/Vagrant host-agent with a system-tray web UI
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl -config Ar path
.Op Fl -headless
.Op Fl -version
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility is the VirtualBox/Vagrant host-agent of the Hyperweaver hypervisor
management platform. It is a single Go binary that runs a local web server
serving the Hyperweaver web UI to the user's own browser, and exposes the
shared Agent API so a Hyperweaver Server can aggregate it alongside
Zoneweaver Agents.
.Pp
.Nm
runs in one of two modes:
.Bl -bullet -offset indent
.It
Desktop (tray) mode: the default. A native system-tray icon offers Open
(launch the web UI in the default or configured browser) and Quit.
.It
Headless service mode
.Pq Fl -headless :
no tray icon; intended for running under systemd with a shared
configuration file.
.El
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width ".Fl -config Ar path"
.It Fl -config Ar path
Read the configuration from
.Ar path
instead of the per-user default location.
.It Fl -headless
Run without the system-tray icon.
.It Fl -version
Print the application version and exit.
.El
.Sh CONFIGURATION
In desktop mode
.Nm
reads (and on first run creates) a per-user configuration file, typically
.Pa ~/.config/hyperweaver-agent/config.yaml
on Linux. The packaged systemd service uses
.Pa /etc/hyperweaver-agent/config.yaml
instead.
.Pp
See
.Xr hyperweaver-agent.yaml 5
for the configuration file format.
.Sh SERVICE MANAGEMENT
The headless service is managed through systemd:
.Pp
.Dl # systemctl enable --now hyperweaver-agent
.Dl # systemctl disable hyperweaver-agent
.Dl # systemctl restart hyperweaver-agent
.Pp
Check service status:
.Pp
.Dl # systemctl status hyperweaver-agent
.Sh WEB INTERFACE
The agent serves the Hyperweaver web UI at:
.Pp
.Dl http://127.0.0.1:9420/ui/
.Pp
With
.Cm ssl.enabled
the same surface is additionally served over HTTPS on
.Cm server.https_port
(default 9421). The root path redirects to the UI when it is enabled. The bundled
documentation site, when present in the UI artifact, is served at
.Pa /docs ,
and the interactive Agent API documentation (Swagger UI) at
.Pa /api-docs .
.Sh PROTOCOL HANDLER
Desktop installs register the
.Ql hwa://
custom URL scheme.
.Ql hwa://open
behaves exactly like the tray Open action: the running agent opens the
signed-in web UI in the user's browser. On Windows and Linux the OS spawns a
fresh agent process with the URI as an argument; that process hands the
action to the running instance (authenticated by a per-boot secret file only
the same user can read) and exits, or becomes the running agent itself when
none is up. Launching
.Nm
in desktop mode while another instance already owns the port is resolved the
same way: the duplicate hands the running instance an open action and exits
instead of starting a second tray icon. Protocol login is only available for
per-user desktop agents — not for the packaged systemd service, which runs
as a different user.
.Sh API ENDPOINTS
The public identity and capability probe of the Agent API contract:
.Pp
.Dl http://127.0.0.1:9420/api/status
.Pp
It reports the agent's role, hypervisor, platform, architecture, version,
hostname, and capability tokens.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width ".Pa /etc/hyperweaver-agent/config.yaml"
.It Pa /usr/bin/hyperweaver-agent
The agent binary
.It Pa /etc/hyperweaver-agent/config.yaml
Service-mode configuration file
.It Pa ~/.config/hyperweaver-agent/config.yaml
Per-user (desktop mode) configuration file
.It Pa /var/log/hyperweaver-agent/
Service log directory
.It Pa /var/lib/hyperweaver-agent/
Service data directory (SQLite databases)
.It Pa /etc/systemd/system/hyperweaver-agent.service
Systemd service unit
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh EXAMPLES
Run headless in the foreground for testing:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ hyperweaver-agent --headless --config /etc/hyperweaver-agent/config.yaml
.Ed
.Pp
Check the agent is up:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ curl http://127.0.0.1:9420/api/status
.Ed
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
The agent logs to a rotating text log file (see
.Xr hyperweaver-agent.yaml 5 )
and, when a console is attached, to standard error. Under systemd, console
output is captured by the journal:
.Pp
.Dl # journalctl -u hyperweaver-agent
.Pp
Note for desktop Linux: stock GNOME Shell does not display system-tray
icons without the AppIndicator extension; KDE, XFCE, and Cinnamon work out
of the box.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr hyperweaver-agent.yaml 5 ,
.Xr systemctl 1 ,
.Xr journalctl 1
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Hyperweaver Project
.Sh SECURITY
.Nm
binds to 127.0.0.1 by default so the web server is reachable only from the
local machine. Review
.Cm server.bind_address
before exposing it more widely, and keep the configuration directory's
filesystem permissions restrictive.
.Pp
With
.Cm host_power.enabled
(the default) the agent exposes admin-key-gated endpoints that shut down,
restart, power off, or halt the host machine itself — remote power control
for headless installs. Set it to false on machines where the agent must
never be able to power off its host.
