.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt HYPERWEAVER-AGENT.YAML 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm hyperweaver-agent.yaml
.Nd configuration file for the Hyperweaver Agent
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
file is the configuration file for
.Xr hyperweaver-agent 8 .
It is written in YAML format.
.Pp
Locations:
.Bl -bullet -offset indent
.It
Desktop (tray) mode:
.Pa ~/.config/hyperweaver-agent/config.yaml
(created with commented defaults on first run)
.It
Headless service mode:
.Pa /etc/hyperweaver-agent/config.yaml
(installed by the package, passed via
.Fl -config )
.El
.Sh CONFIGURATION SECTIONS
.Ss server
HTTP/HTTPS server configuration.
.Bl -tag -width "bind_address"
.It Cm bind_address
IP address to bind the web server to (default: "127.0.0.1"). Keep the
loopback address unless the agent must be reachable from other machines.
.It Cm port
TCP port number for the HTTP server (default: 9420)
.It Cm https_port
TCP port number for the HTTPS listener, bound only when
.Cm ssl.enabled
(default: 9421)
.El
.Ss ssl
HTTPS/TLS configuration. Certificate problems never stop the agent — HTTPS
is skipped with an error in the log and HTTP keeps serving.
.Bl -tag -width "generate_ssl"
.It Cm enabled
Boolean serving HTTPS on
.Cm server.https_port
(default: true). With SSL up, the plain-HTTP port serves only redirects to
HTTPS unless
.Cm force_secure
is false.
.It Cm force_secure
Boolean making the plain-HTTP port serve only 308 redirects to HTTPS while
the TLS listener is up (default: true). Set false to keep the HTTP port
serving the full application alongside HTTPS, for clients that cannot
follow redirects. When the TLS listener fails to start (certificate
problems), the HTTP port serves the full application regardless.
.It Cm generate_ssl
Boolean generating the server certificate (RSA 2048, 365 days, CN=localhost,
localhost/loopback/hostname SANs) at the paths below when none exists,
signed by the CA at the CA paths — the CA itself is generated (RSA 4096,
10 years, CA:TRUE) when absent (default: true)
.It Cm key_path
Server TLS private key location. Empty uses
.Pa <config dir>/ssl/server.key ;
the packaged service sets
.Pa /etc/hyperweaver-agent/ssl/server.key .
.It Cm cert_path
Server TLS certificate location. Empty uses
.Pa <config dir>/ssl/server.crt ;
the packaged service sets
.Pa /etc/hyperweaver-agent/ssl/server.crt .
.It Cm ca_cert_path
CA certificate that signs the generated server certificate. Provide your own
CA pair (wildcard-capable) and everything chains to it; import this
certificate into client trust stores for warning-free HTTPS. Empty uses
.Pa <config dir>/ssl/ca.crt .
.It Cm ca_key_path
CA private key location (PKCS#1, PKCS#8, or EC). Empty uses
.Pa <config dir>/ssl/ca.key .
.El
.Ss cors
Cross-Origin Resource Sharing. The agent is an API-key-authenticated backend
in a many-to-many mesh: the key, not the browser Origin, is the access
boundary.
.Bl -tag -width "allow_all"
.It Cm allow_all
Boolean answering any browser Origin (default: true). Set false to fall back
to the whitelist and lock down direct browser access; proxied,
API-key-authenticated calls are unaffected either way.
.It Cm whitelist
List of origins (scheme://host:port) allowed when
.Cm allow_all
is false (default: empty)
.El
.Ss ui
Web UI serving.
.Bl -tag -width "enabled"
.It Cm enabled
Boolean enabling the Hyperweaver UI at /ui/ (default: true). When disabled
the agent is API-only and the root path serves a small JSON info document.
.It Cm path
Optional directory to serve the UI from instead of the copy embedded in the
binary (default: empty = embedded)
.El
.Ss browser
Browser launching (desktop mode only).
.Bl -tag -width "open_on_start"
.It Cm path
Optional full path to a browser executable (or .app bundle on macOS) used by
the tray Open action and the startup open. Empty selects the operating
system's default browser.
.It Cm open_on_start
Boolean opening the signed-in UI in the browser when the desktop agent
starts, so a fresh install lands in the app without hunting for the tray
icon. Ignored in headless service mode (default: true).
.El
.Ss logging
Logging configuration.
.Bl -tag -width "max_size_mb"
.It Cm level
Logging level: "error", "warn", "info", or "debug" (default: "info")
.It Cm console
Boolean enabling human-readable logging on standard error (default: true).
Under systemd this output is captured by the journal. The Windows GUI build
has no console; the log file is authoritative there.
.It Cm file
Log file path. Empty uses the default location
.Pa <config dir>/logs/agent.log ;
the packaged service sets
.Pa /var/log/hyperweaver-agent/agent.log .
.It Cm max_size_mb
Maximum log file size in megabytes before rotation (default: 20)
.It Cm max_backups
Number of rotated log files to keep (default: 5)
.It Cm compression
Boolean gzip-compressing rotated log files (default: true)
.It Cm categories
Map of per-category log levels overriding the global level. Categories the
agent emits: app, api_requests, auth, tasks, machines, monitoring,
provisioning, assets (default: empty — all categories follow
.Cm level )
.El
.Ss api_keys
API-key authentication (the Agent API v1 local tier).
.Bl -tag -width "bootstrap_require_claim_token"
.It Cm bootstrap_enabled
Boolean enabling POST /api-keys/bootstrap to create the first API key
(default: true)
.It Cm bootstrap_auto_disable
Boolean locking the bootstrap endpoint once any key exists (default: true)
.It Cm bootstrap_require_claim_token
Boolean requiring the setup (claim) token — written to
.Pa setup.token
beside this file and printed to the startup log — as proof of host
ownership (default: true)
.It Cm hash_rounds
Bcrypt cost for stored key hashes, 4-20 (default: 12)
.It Cm key_length
Random bytes of key material, 16-256, base64url-encoded after the hw_
prefix (default: 64)
.El
.Ss updates
Application update checking.
.Bl -tag -width "versioninfo_url"
.It Cm versioninfo_url
URL of the remote versioninfo JSON document (version, releaseUrl,
releaseDate, changelog) the update check compares against. Empty disables
update checking.
.El
.Ss api_docs
Interactive API documentation.
.Bl -tag -width "enabled"
.It Cm enabled
Boolean serving the Agent API documentation (Swagger UI) at /api-docs
(default: true)
.El
.Ss stats
Server statistics endpoint.
.Bl -tag -width "public_access"
.It Cm public_access
Boolean serving GET /stats without an API key (default: false)
.El
.Ss data
Data storage locations.
.Bl -tag -width "dir"
.It Cm dir
Root directory for agent data: the SQLite databases
.Pa ( tasks.sqlite ,
.Pa agent.sqlite )
today; machine directories, provisioners, and the file cache in later
releases. Empty selects the per-OS local app-data default
.Pa ( %LOCALAPPDATA%\ehyperweaver-agent
on Windows,
.Pa ~/Library/Application Support/hyperweaver-agent
on macOS,
.Pa ~/.local/share/hyperweaver-agent
on Linux); the packaged service sets
.Pa /var/lib/hyperweaver-agent .
.El
.Ss database
SQLite tuning applied to both agent databases
.Pa ( tasks.sqlite ,
.Pa agent.sqlite ) ,
under the
.Cm sqlite_options
key.
.Bl -tag -width "wal_autocheckpoint"
.It Cm sqlite_options.journal_mode
DELETE | TRUNCATE | PERSIST | MEMORY | WAL | OFF (default: WAL)
.It Cm sqlite_options.synchronous
OFF | NORMAL | FULL | EXTRA (default: NORMAL)
.It Cm sqlite_options.cache_size_mb
Page cache size in megabytes, 1-8192 (default: 128)
.It Cm sqlite_options.temp_store
DEFAULT | FILE | MEMORY (default: MEMORY)
.It Cm sqlite_options.mmap_size_mb
Memory-mapped I/O window in megabytes, 0-16384; 0 disables (default: 512)
.It Cm sqlite_options.busy_timeout_ms
Lock wait in milliseconds, 100-600000 (default: 30000)
.It Cm sqlite_options.wal_autocheckpoint
WAL checkpoint threshold in pages, 0-1000000; 0 disables automatic
checkpoints (default: 1000)
.It Cm sqlite_options.optimize
Boolean running PRAGMA optimize when opening each database (default: true)
.El
.Ss tasks
Task queue configuration.
.Bl -tag -width "poll_interval_seconds"
.It Cm poll_interval_seconds
Seconds between task-queue polls, 1-60 (default: 2)
.It Cm max_concurrent
Maximum number of tasks running at once, 1-64 (default: 5)
.It Cm default_pagination_limit
Default limit for GET /tasks when the request does not send one, 1-1000
(default: 50)
.It Cm retention_days
Completed, failed, and cancelled tasks older than this many days are deleted
by the periodic cleanup, 1-3650 (default: 30)
.It Cm output.enabled
Boolean enabling task output capture — live streaming and persistence
(default: true)
.It Cm output.mode
"full" keeps every output line; "circular" caps the in-memory buffer at
.Cm circular_max_lines ,
dropping the oldest (default: "full")
.It Cm output.circular_max_lines
Buffer cap for circular mode, minimum 100 (default: 10000)
.It Cm output.flush_interval_seconds
Seconds between database flushes of a running task's output, 1-300
(default: 10)
.It Cm output.persist_log_file
Boolean also writing a plain-text per-task log file when a task finishes
(default: true)
.It Cm output.log_directory
Directory for those log files. Empty uses
.Pa <config dir>/logs/tasks ;
the packaged service sets
.Pa /var/log/hyperweaver-agent/tasks .
.El
.Ss machines
Machine registry configuration.
.Bl -tag -width "discovery_interval"
.It Cm auto_discovery
Boolean creating a periodic background discover task that reconciles the
registry against VirtualBox and vagrant — importing machines built outside
the agent, refreshing every machine's live state, and detecting external
shutdowns (default: true). The startup discovery task always runs.
.It Cm discovery_interval
Seconds between periodic discover tasks, 10-86400 (default: 300)
.It Cm server_id_start
Lowest auto-assigned server_id, 1-99999999 (default: 1)
.It Cm prefix_machine_names
Boolean deriving created machines' names as
<server_id>--<hostname>.<domain> when the create/clone request carries no
explicit name (the partition-id convention). An explicit name always wins —
machine names stay free-form (default: false).
.It Cm shutdown_timeout
Seconds a graceful stop waits for the guest to power off after the ACPI
signal before forcing poweroff, 5-3600 (default: 120)
.It Cm keep_running_on_exit
Boolean keeping provisioned machines running when the agent exits (SHI's
keepserversrunning). false force-powers-off every machine this agent created
on the way out; discovered VMs are never touched (default: true).
.El
.Ss provisioning
Provisioning engine (the provisioner package registry and the provisioning
capability token).
.Bl -tag -width "provisioners_dir"
.It Cm provisioners_dir
Directory holding provisioner packages in SHI's on-disk format
.Pa ( <name>/provisioner-collection.yml
with
.Pa <version>/provisioner.yml
trees beneath). Installer-bundled package archives (staged in
.Pa /usr/share/hyperweaver-agent/provisioners-seed
on Debian, beside the executable elsewhere) are extracted here on startup
without ever overwriting existing versions. Empty selects
.Pa provisioners
under
.Cm data.dir .
.It Cm machines_dir
Root of the per-machine working directories: the materialized provisioner
copy, the rendered Hosts.yml, id-files, installers, ssls trees, and the
machine's disk media. Empty selects
.Pa machines
under
.Cm data.dir .
.It Cm default_sync_method
Sync method for machines whose spec sets none, landing as the rendered
document's folders[].type: "rsync" or "scp" (platform rules still apply —
forced rsync on Windows, macOS auto-fallback to SCP on the ancient Apple
rsync; vagrant's embedded rsync is used when none is on PATH)
(default: "rsync").
.It Cm default_network_interface
Host bridge interface injected into templates as DEFAULT_NETWORK_INTERFACE
when the spec sets none; values come from GET /provisioning/bridged-interfaces
(default: empty).
.It Cm playbook_timeout_seconds
Timeout for one in-guest ansible-playbook run, minimum 60 (default: 21600).
.It Cm ansible_install_timeout_seconds
Timeout for the in-guest ansible/collection installation steps, minimum 60
(default: 300).
.It Cm ssh.key_path
The agent's own provisioning private key — the SSH-auth fallback when the
machine's document supplies neither a key nor a password; generated
(ed25519) at startup when absent. Empty selects
.Pa ssh/provision_key
beside the configuration file.
.It Cm ssh.timeout_seconds
Total wait for a guest's SSH to become available; the document's
settings.setup_wait wins when larger. Minimum 10 (default: 300).
.It Cm ssh.poll_interval_seconds
Interval between SSH availability checks, minimum 1 (default: 10).
.It Cm network.enabled
Boolean enabling the dedicated provisioning network: ONE VirtualBox
host-only interface — identified by
.Cm network.host_ip ,
since VirtualBox assigns interface names itself — plus its DHCP server.
Set up and torn down via POST /provisioning/network/setup and
DELETE /provisioning/network/teardown; host-type networks[] entries in
machine documents attach to the interface at create and their addresses pin
as per-VM fixed DHCP leases, so guests receive their document's control IP
from an ordinary DHCP request (default: true).
.It Cm network.subnet
Provisioning network subnet in CIDR form (default: "10.190.190.0/24")
.It Cm network.host_ip
Host address on the provisioning network — the interface's identity
(default: "10.190.190.1")
.It Cm network.netmask
Provisioning network mask (default: "255.255.255.0")
.It Cm network.dhcp_server_ip
The VirtualBox DHCP server's own address; must differ from
.Cm network.host_ip
(default: "10.190.190.2")
.It Cm network.dhcp_range_start
Lowest assignable pool address; fixed leases and the clone allocator draw
from the pool (default: "10.190.190.10")
.It Cm network.dhcp_range_end
Highest assignable pool address (default: "10.190.190.254")
.El
.Ss template_sources
Box-template registry: downloaded box disk images machines clone from
(the create orchestration's storage step), and the
Vagrant/BoxVault-compatible registries serving them.
.Bl -tag -width "local_storage_path"
.It Cm local_storage_path
Template storage root, laid out
.Pa <root>/<organization>/<box>/<version>/ .
Empty selects
.Pa templates
under
.Cm data.dir .
.It Cm sources
List of registries: name, url, enabled, default, auth_token. The entry
named "Default Registry" (or flagged default) serves requests that name no
source; auth_token authenticates private boxes and never enters task
metadata (default: the STARTcloud BoxVault registry).
.El
.Ss assets
Installer file cache (the artifacts capability token): hash-verified
installer/fixpack/hotfix files that machines mount at start. A file that is
absent, unhashed, or failing SHA-256 verification never reaches a machine.
.Bl -tag -width "max_upload_gb"
.It Cm enabled
Boolean serving the /artifacts surface and enforcing cache verification at
machine prepare time; disabled skips mounting and verification entirely,
with a loud warning in the task output (default: true).
.It Cm dir
Cache root, laid out
.Pa <dir>/<role>/{installers,fixpacks,hotfixes}/<file> .
Empty selects
.Pa file-cache
under
.Cm data.dir .
.It Cm max_upload_gb
Upload size cap in GiB, 1-1024 (default: 50)
.El
.Ss cleanup
Periodic cleanup service.
.Bl -tag -width "interval"
.It Cm interval
Seconds between cleanup runs — task retention runs on this cadence, 60-86400
(default: 300)
.El
.Ss monitoring
Host telemetry (the /monitoring endpoints and the monitoring capability
token). The endpoints always serve realtime samples; storage adds history.
.Bl -tag -width "collection_interval"
.It Cm storage_enabled
Boolean enabling the background collector that writes telemetry time series
into per-datatype database files
.Pa ( monitoring-cpu.sqlite ,
.Pa monitoring-memory.sqlite ,
.Pa monitoring-network.sqlite
under
.Cm data.dir )
so history charts work. Off means realtime-only: every request samples the
operating system live (default: false).
.It Cm collection_interval
Seconds between collector samples when storage is enabled, 5-3600
(default: 60)
.It Cm retention_days
Stored samples older than this many days are deleted by the periodic
cleanup, 1-365 (default: 7)
.El
.Ss host_power
Host power management (the /system/host endpoints and the host-power
capability token).
.Bl -tag -width "enabled"
.It Cm enabled
Boolean serving the host power endpoints: status and uptime, plus
admin-key-gated shutdown, restart, poweroff, and halt of the machine the
agent runs on — remote power control for headless hosts. When false every
endpoint answers 503 and the token disappears from GET /api/status
(default: true).
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width ".Pa /var/log/hyperweaver-agent/"
.It Pa /etc/hyperweaver-agent/config.yaml
Service-mode configuration
.It Pa ~/.config/hyperweaver-agent/config.yaml
Per-user configuration
.It Pa /var/log/hyperweaver-agent/
Service log directory
.It Pa /var/lib/hyperweaver-agent/
Service data directory (SQLite databases)
.El
.Pp
Beside the configuration file the agent also keeps
.Pa setup.token
(first-key claim token, 0600),
.Pa keys.json
(hashed API keys, 0600),
.Pa protocol.secret
(per-boot hwa:// handoff secret, 0600),
.Pa secrets.yaml
(the global secrets store, 0600 — plain text by design; served by the
admin-only /secrets API and injected into generated Hosts.yml files as
SECRETS_* variables), and
.Pa backups/
(configuration backups). Under the data directory
.Pq Cm data.dir
it keeps
.Pa tasks.sqlite
(the task queue and its output),
.Pa agent.sqlite
(core state), and — when
.Cm monitoring.storage_enabled
is on —
.Pa monitoring-cpu.sqlite ,
.Pa monitoring-memory.sqlite ,
and
.Pa monitoring-network.sqlite
(telemetry time series), all 0600, plus the
.Pa provisioners/
package registry
.Pq Cm provisioning.provisioners_dir .
.Sh EXAMPLES
The packaged default:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
server:
  bind_address: 127.0.0.1
  port: 9420

ui:
  enabled: true
  path: ''

browser:
  path: ''

logging:
  level: info
  console: true
  file: /var/log/hyperweaver-agent/agent.log
  max_size_mb: 20
  max_backups: 5
.Ed
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
Configuration errors prevent the agent from starting and are reported on
standard error and in the journal:
.Pp
.Dl # journalctl -u hyperweaver-agent
.Pp
Common configuration issues:
.Bl -bullet -offset indent
.It
Invalid YAML syntax (indentation, special characters)
.It
Unknown configuration keys (the parser is strict and rejects typos)
.It
Port conflicts with other services
.It
Log directory not writable by the service user
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr hyperweaver-agent 8 ,
.Xr systemctl 1 ,
.Xr journalctl 1
.Sh STANDARDS
The configuration file uses YAML 1.2 format as defined by the YAML
specification.
.Sh SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
Keep restrictive filesystem permissions on the configuration directory; it
will hold credentials in future releases. Leave
.Cm server.bind_address
on 127.0.0.1 unless remote access is required and understood.
